cun zai packs a lot in a small space
cities border on cities giving the
impression to the local train passenger
that can say is one big city the
transistor makes it possible at not much
cost to go from city to city and cons I
quickly many train stations have more
than one line running through them
stations are the center of more than
transport services supermarkets hotels
and a great amount of activity is found
in many stations by your goodies and as
long as they are not too big take them
on the train with you information about
destinations and fears are graphically
presented in train stations near the
ticket vending machines learn to buy a
single ticket or bulk concession tickets
possibly helped by total stranger ready
to practice English on you and help a
bewildered foreigner when Angela Cole
who has spent a decade as an assistant
English teacher in huts sister city min
or says you can learn a lot about
Japanese by keeping your eyes open on
the train you can really get to know
Japanese society just by observing train
behavior start by looking for patterns
find your way into the station with the
help of signboards increasingly in
English as well as in Japanese note the
number for the entrance and the exit
look at how the rail administration's
provide the services work it out once
and you will probably find the same
pattern elsewhere think of the time of
day look at people's clothing how
Western the suits dresses and casual
gear are how many criminal clad do you
think you will find is it evening and
the salary men are in their suits coming
home from a late night at the office and
building relationships with others I
feel safe taking a train at night is it
morning and other trains so crowded they
need pushes to help office workers and
students start their working day they've
become a lot stricter and the train
stations and on the trains look at the
school uniforms the girls and boys wear
look at older people and how they carry
this shopping are these the sort of
Japanese who might enjoy the beauty of
New Zealand its sole now to some people
have white surgical masks on the
socially responsible Japanese who don't
want to pass on a cough or a cold to
other citizens look at the use of
portable entertainment plugs and ears
see the evidence of cell phones and
convention that restrains people from
raucous conversation see the
advertisements in the trains and on the
buildings and the streets that will so
by what is hot what does not look at
people sleeping it always amazed me how
a man would come on the train or a
person would come and sit on the train
fall asleep yet as soon as they reached
their station they would wake up and
jump off think of how long some of these
people travel to and fro each day from
home to school or work where were you
going io8 cancer International Airport
choosing a train bus or taxi to take you
on your first ride into your
accommodation home to your homestay see
the residential suburbs through the
train window to the city center see the
big office buildings have you found some
place where you can get local
information or did you pluck up courage
to ask a stranger for directions
have you found a money machine we're
going to try and use the visa card from
New Zealand bank of new zealand visa
card and is it a Japan post office money
machine that takes a new zealand credit
card which has a plus sign to see if it
will work in this machine so I put it in
and it said this card cannot be used now
this is a very common problem for
foreigners and Japan are you swamped by
people shops and noise in the shops and
the big railway station have you found
your way to underground be one in the
big department store will you buy fresh
food groceries drink and see which
products are stopped from New Zealand
which temperley visiting see the name on
the station sign and the entrance to a
part of Japan's or perhaps world's
heritage perhaps you are going by train
to Sakai city hall chosen we're here on
the 21st floor of the Sakai city
government building and going to the top
to see the view of the centuries-old
burial mound up there is Nara somewhere
yes and down announced to see we have
the the Kansai International Airport it
is sensible to break your travel and to
train and other ways of getting around
perhaps you get a map and walk from the
train station maps are great ask the
person you were visiting to draw or give
you a map or download a relevant one
from the internet perhaps you get a
short ride and taxi found at the station
perhaps you were walking to the minnow
waterfall texted to the top of the walk
and train from the exit you may be in
core bear and want to visit the museum
that tells of the great earthquake not
so long ago was the original port for
what is now known as can say it was
crucial to Japan's industrial successes
from the late 19th century onward and
don't forget the humble bicycle they are
everywhere even on the pavement I've
been to various countries and Japan is
definitely probably one of the safest
countries in the world still
the you are you've seen much of the big
cities of cancer just by concentrating
on the local train system
you